In our main video for session two, we have
looked at how to set up and solve and
optimization problem in Excel
2013 on the Windows platform.
Please make sure that you watch that
main video before looking at this one.
In this video, we will go over
the differences in the way the Excel and
the solver is set up
on Mac versus Windows.
Here's a spreadsheet for the Zooter
problem loaded on to Excel for Mac 2011.
On the spreadsheet, we have entered
a trial solution 500 and 500.
And all the formulas for
the objective function and for
the used resource amounts.
First, let's find where the Solver is.
Solver is an Excel add-in, and in order
to locate it, you must go to Tools,
Add-Ins, and
make sure that the Solver is checked here.
After that the Solver will either
appear on the tools right here.
Or you can find Solver
directly under Data tab.
There will be a button Solver right there.
Before we look at the Solver,
let's go over a couple differences in
the shortcuts used on Windows versus Mac.
Let's first see how we can display and
edit a formula in a particular cell.
On the Windows platform, we have used
the shortcut F2 for this purpose.
On the Mac,
we use the shortcut Ctrl + U instead.
For example, if I go to the cell F10,
where the profit formula is located.
I can display and
edit this formula by pressing Ctrl + U.
Okay.
The second difference we want to point out
is the way you introduce absolute cell
references.
On the Windows platform the shortcut for
this was F4, on Mac it is Cmd + T.
For example, if I go into the cell E14 and
display the formula using Ctrl + U.
I can highlight the decision
variable cells, C10 and D10.
And then I can change the addresses
of the cells between absolute and
relative by repeatedly pressing Cmd + T.
Okay, let's call the Solver.
I will do it from the Data tab.
As you can see, the Solver dialogue
box looks pretty much the same as
the Solver dialogue box for Windows.
We specify constraints and
objective function and
decision variables in the same way.
We click
Make Unconstrained Variables Non-Negative,
we select the same solving method.
We click on Options to make sure that, for
example, the Ignore Integer Constraints
is unchecked.
And now we're actually ready
to click the Solve button.
Let's hope it starts working.
And then displays the optimal solution
right there on the spreadsheet.